---

layout: post

author: softwareshinobi

title:  "HBO's Plepler on Life After 'Game of Thrones'"

categories: [lorem-ipsum]

tags: [lorem-ipsum,lorem,ipsum]

image: https://random.imagecdn.app/820/360

description: "HBO's Plepler on Life After 'Game of Thrones'"

hidden: false

---

HBO's Plepler on Life After 'Game of Thrones'
Intro
As the media landscape changes HBO chairman and CEO Richard plepler believes that his company is entering a
golden age of brand what people count on
us for is the curation of accidents and
what we have to do to continue to grow
is keep delivering on them and
delivering on that excellence stems from
the people our best brand ambassadors
are the talent who talk about working at
HBO we can't do better than that it's
this core of talent that plepler credits
for HBO's biggest hits it's me and you
are still together that's the note
Becket alone and growing subscriptions
with viewers that have more choices now
than ever our job is play our game
continue to deliver on what we do we are
making our product available whenever
however and wherever our consumer
current and future wants it looking back
at a 25-year career and forward to what
the future holds in this Bloomberg
Businessweek debrief a conversation with
Richard plepler it's coming up to 25
years at HBO for you with the business
and a variety of different roles tell me
why when you look at HBO and you
describe what you're doing and this
business and all the changes you've seen
that we're now entering this as you call
it a golden age of brand you know
there's there's so much content out
there there's a there's a surfeit of
content more content now than at any
time in the history of our business
there's some terrific content there's
some mediocre content and there's some
not-so-good content so I think the truth
of the matter is that brands matter now
more than ever and consumers just look
at your own life you're in the business
you can't follow everything you know you
hear about a show you hear about a new
series it's hard to keep up and it's
hard to keep track what you can follow
is brands and you know I think and if
we're delivering on the implicit promise
we make to our consumer we're delivering
on our promise to deliver
quality content to deliver something
differentiated to deliver original
voices to deliver something special to
the consumer across a wide range of
categories documentaries original movies
miniseries half hours late night hour
dramas so I think what people count on
us for is the curation of excellence and
what we have to do to continue to grow
is keep delivering on that and I'm happy
to say that the great blessing for our
company and for our brand is that the
best talent continues to want to work
with us and inside HBO so we have this
embarrassment of riches where every
Friday in our company we know of
something exciting from the creative
world that we didn't know about on
Monday and because we understand very
very clearly that the secret to our
success are the people that come to work
with us the writers the producers the
directors the actors the magic is out
there and our job is to open our doors
and bring in all that talent HBO to do
what they do best so our best brand
ambassadors are the talent who talked
about working at HBO we can't do better
than that than to have all those writers
and all those producers and actors
saying no I had a tremendous experience
there I want to do it again oh and by
the way you should go there and do it as
well they're our best brand ambassadors
even better than we are for ourselves
when I was growing up HBO was one of the
few premium outlet subscribers of where
you could go to really expect that that
type of programming obviously during the
25 years you've been there and the last
five years in particular Hulu Amazon
other OTT providers many different
choices for this same core group of
talent to go try and get projects
greenlit to go other places
Netflix do you find that environment is
making it adding to an embarrassment of
riches of content are you concerned that
you're going to stop getting first dibs
on certain projects how are you out
there things like big little
first of all I've never thought that
this was a zero-sum game I've never
believed that because the crown is a
good show on Netflix that that somehow
diminishes Westworld or a big little
lies or true detective it doesn't it
just means there's an additive amount of
quality out in the landscape our job is
play our game continue to deliver on
what we do I say over and over again
what we are North Star is let's make
sure that we're guaranteeing that the
consumer is not only getting the best
quality of content inside the HBO offer
but that we are making our product
available whenever however and wherever
our consumer current and future wants it
and that's why we built a multilateral
distribution strategy and that's why
we're continuing to stick to the core
values of the way we think about the
creative process which is coming here
and do great work and for us the metric
is quality and we think that if we stick
to that and we adhere to that talent
recognises it and it becomes a virtuous
cycle and that fortunately we're seeing
over and over again with all of these
options that are available to talent
into consumers the line at our doors we
sit here today in the fall of 2017
is longer than it was five years ago and
much longer than it was ten years ago
so if we continue to execute and that's
our job to continue to execute because
believe me if we don't deliver on that
promise then you're absolutely right
there's good that people are gonna turn
and go elsewhere but I think the reason
we're growing is because we are
delivering on when you talk about HBO
now there's two words that come up quite
frequently two phrases what is
multilateral distribution second is
traditional ecosystem no we look at
obviously there's the midst of a deal
going on with ATT buying time water of
which HBO is of course apart when we
think about the traditional eco system
you've always said that you believe that
HBO's growth
we'll continue to come mostly from the
traditional ecosystem that meaning cable
subscription audiences and like one
thing what I've said was we are going to
grow multilaterally and what I meant by
that is we've we looked out at the
market four or five years ago and we
realized we were totally under
penetrated and that at about a third of
the country we could do much better than
that and when we made the decision to
build our standalone streaming service
we decided remember at that time there
were only probably five million
broadband only homes when we stood on
the stage in Cupertino to announce in
the March of 2015 there were probably
eight and a half to ten and as you and I
say here today it's close to 20 so we we
knew that that audience was growing that
cord cutter audience was growing on the
other hand we knew we were under
penetrated in our traditional ecosystem
so our job was to design deals that
incentivized our traditional partners to
grow and package HBO because we saw a
lot of growth in that market and to make
sure we provided an option to our
consumers that they could get HBO if
they only had a broadband only service
both and we knew it wasn't going to be
cannibalistic we knew it was going to be
additive and I think we've been proven
correct when you look at it not being
cannibalistic your own stats show that
it's very low in terms of people take
away from the core HBO that's correct
but if there are some people who prefer
a traditional bundle and maybe it's a
skinnier bundle and it doesn't have you
know 180 channels in it but for HBO
skinnier bundles have been a good thing
because if you take the average price of
a cable or satellite or telco
subscription down from $100 to say 65 or
70 dollars that means HBO which has
always been a la carte right is a much
more digestible purchase for somebody
off of a lower price point so for us
skinny bundles have been a good thing
it's allowed the cable satellite
operator to package us more effectively
and opportunistically for us and at the
same time we've been able to parallel
process in to grow digitally one has not
been at the expense of the other and as
I like to say
nobody is selling HBO whether it's
digitally or whether it's in the
traditional ecosystem doing a favor to
us they're selling HBO because it's a
great product and it helps keep their
bundles stickier and because they know
that their consumers want when you look
at HBO now where do you see the audience
going on what did you learn that's been
surprising about that product we
designed our OTT strategy because as I
said a minute ago we understood and it
didn't require too much rocket scientist
to know that that cord cutter group was
going to grow remember we were only in
about a third of the country and our
research was pretty clear to us when we
undertook it about two and a half three
years ago and we saw that we had an
additional 20 25 million homes as long
as you explain to what we called the
undecided voter the persuadable voter
what was inside the HBO package because
people didn't know you needed to explain
to them that there's a library of 3,000
hours of programming that we have for
Hollywood movie studios in addition to
our terrific original programming and
you needed to remind people that HBO Go
which was off of a traditional script
subscription meant you could get HBO on
whatever device you wanted as you began
to socialize that and as our partners
began to market that more effectively
inefficiency efficiently we began to see
tremendous subscriber uptick and you saw
our third quarter numbers which is 12%
subscriber revenue growth we're on track
to have our biggest year of subscription
revenue growth in the history of the
company so I think we've been proven
right great product made available how
when and where consumers want it and
make sure you're available throughout a
multilateral distribution strategy
that's how we think about you know what
our current strategy in about the future
we were sitting here month goes probably
wind of klump in this way but the AT&T
Time Warner deal has hit some headwinds
looks like it may end up in court are
you so confident the deal will go
through yeah you know look I read what
you read
and I think you know obviously there's
been a delay there's discussions between
18t and the Justice Department the CFO
18t said last week I think that it's
unlikely the deal closes this year but I
think we'll get there and I think the
same reasons that the deal is dynamic
and exciting before all this are still
the reasons that the deal is dynamic and
exciting you know vertical mergers have
been approved for 40 years for a reason
and I think it's exciting for HBO I
think it's exciting for the other two
divisions and I think it's exciting for
AT&T as well so I am optimistic cloud
coming up plepler describes what it's
like to say goodbye to one hit and how
he finds the next one I remember saying
over and over again I know seven they'll
never be another Sopranos what they'll
be is the next terrific show that's
ahead on Bloomberg Businessweek debrief
a conversation with Richard plepler
you
when we talk about regional programming
versus movie distribution and first-run
were you surprised that so much of the
media focuses on the original
programming the game of Thrones the
stuff that's created exclusively the
stuff that wins the kind of awards you
guys have won but the number of
penetration in terms of movies is still
so high it's so much of the driver were
you surprised that people didn't seem to
be aware of the full package that is
well the consumer you know if you look
at viewership 79 percent on on their
linear channels are watching movies and
somewhere around 72 percent across all
platforms so movies continue to be an
incredibly popular so even people who
have seen a movie in a theater are
watching in a second time or even a
third time on HBO and we have you know
four terrific Hollywood studios for she
want a window movies that's a big
additive piece of our offering and again
we're starting to market our movie
advantage more aggressively than we had
in the past just to remind the consumer
how many great movies are on HBO in
addition to the library you can go back
and watch the wire and go back and watch
Sopranos you can go back and watch Sex
in the City you know there's a whole if
you missed big little lies go back and
watch it you know if if you if you
missed true detective go back and watch
it catch up get familiar with the
product in the show come back to the
next season or the next offering so on
demand tremendous advantage it came
remember to HBO first and now the beauty
of all of our streaming services and the
optionality that they present to the
consumer a huge advantage for for the
variable options that consumers have so
you mentioned The Sopranos and when I
look back at when I go back to 2007 and
you're named Coe president in charge of
programming and The Sopranos is ending
and sex in the city is gone and in
Hollywood people are saying that HBO is
over new york times but when when i
privileged enough to be given that job
the New York Times ran an article by my
friend Bill Carter for whom I have
enormous respect and said HBO's
competitors say they've stumbled and I
always like to say the piece hurt for
three reasons
right it was written by The Times which
I have a lot of respect for it was
written by a tremendous reporter bill by
equal respect for and there was some
truth to it we had because I think we
had become a little hubristic Oh - 205 I
think we owe - no seven rather I think
we we rode that sopranos sex in the city
tiger and we thought well we had the
secret sauce and I think we lost a
little bit of our insurgent voice which
we had brought to the dance for so many
years and I think the job of my
colleagues and myself I hardly did it
alone was to refocus on that insurgent
voice to trust the writers and the Oh
tors who were coming in with new ideas
and to remember I remember saying over
and over again I know seven they'll
never be another Sopranos what they'll
be is the next terrific show and let's
just go back to our essence which was
trusting the voice of great artists and
no tours who have a vision for what they
want that show to be in came Alan Ball
with True Blood and Lena Dunham with
girls and Armando Iannucci with veep and
and Mike judge and Alec Berg with
Silicon Valley and these two guys of
course who had never done television
before David Benioff and Dan Weiss who
had this idea to adapt George RR
Martin's books and we believed in them
and we trusted them and we thought they
were special and you could feel it and
you could feel their passion in the room
and people always say oh that you know
was such a brave thing well it actually
wasn't because if you sat with David and
Dan and you saw the way they owned their
brief when they were talking about what
they thought Thrones could be it was
actually quite easy when you saw the
first cut of Thrones did you know right
away that it was going to be well I
think the honest truth is that any
who tells you that when they see the
first cut of anything they know that
it's gonna be a mega hit is is is lying
to you nobody knows that bill Goldman
famously said nobody knows anything
there's a lot of truth to that what we
knew is that something special was
possible and that we believed in these
guys to tell the story that they were
breathing the story of George's books
and that they they lived and you could
feel that so we placed our faith in them
and an extraordinary team that they
built around them and that was well
placed in terms of the back end and the
tech yeah of building out HBO now yeah
that was a bit of a rocky look the dig
on us when we in that we announced our
plans and an investor conference in
October 2014 and we said i think the
phrase i used from the stage was HBO is
going to go beyond the wall to coin a
phrase and when when we all went up on
stage
kevin switch ihara from warner brothers
john martin from turner and and jeff
bukas the chairman of time warner the
first question was to me from the
eminent analyst rich greenfield and
essentially it was a question which
crystallized the implicit doubt about
what we could do which was where's your
tech DNA how are you possibly going to
be able to do it and of course even if
you can do it won't it become
cannibalistic and we said i said yes we
can and no it won't and our tech team
which was absolutely extraordinary which
we built from a standing start over the
course of the last you know three four
years in Seattle which has been nothing
short of Herculean and then we joined up
with bam Tech to to to you know help us
with our back end that was a very turned
out to be a very wise decision because
they were terrific partners extremely
helpful to us and we made it work and we
were able to push the switch in in March
of 2015
launch HBO now with with Apple and we've
seen tremendous acceleration since then
so no there you know look none of this
is easy and there were I would be lying
to you if I didn't say there weren't my
fair share of sleepless nights and I'm
sure many of my colleagues shared those
but we got it done and we're very proud
coming up how telling the right story
can impact someone's life those of us
who are privileged enough to have a
small role in popular culture have an
opportunity to tell stories you can do
something that opens up people's eyes
that's ahead on Bloomberg Businessweek
debrief a conversation with Richard
plepler
[Music]
we've seen a wave of harassment claims
in obviously in Hollywood people that
HBO has collaborated with harvey
weinstein louis c.k across the media
industry and politics you've been in
this business a long time what's been
your reaction to it what are you doing
at HBO what have you done and is this a
game-changing moment you think for women
in this and I think if there's a silver
lining in any of this it's that it is of
course it will be it will be a
demarcation point in different cultures
and companies where willful ignorance or
turning a blind eye to questionable
activities or whispering that people
heard throughout the corridors that will
now turn into zero tolerance and that is
a good thing because I think there was
probably a lot of willful ignorance
going on at different in different
environments because a lot of people had
commented on behavior of some of the
people who you named for a long time and
I think people just didn't look too
closely that end with all the
revelations of Harvey Weinstein and over
the course of last week's I'm curious
when we talk about nice than so much my
time talking about partisan divide
talking about people who feel left out
who feel disenfranchised how does that
inform not just what you do on a
personal level but at HBO choices you
make over content in terms of thinking
about are we representing across all of
our choices the diversity of voices that
are out there so you know we were HBO
was privileged to win an award for
diversity a few weeks back from the
Cates foundation and I was privileged
enough to accept it and I kind of threw
away my formal acceptance and I just
said you know how is it possible and I
was here stealing from skip gates
wonderful show
finding your roots where it's pretty
clear his conclusions are that the human
genome makes clear where 99.9% the same
and so I asked rhetorically how is it
possible if for 99.9% the same that
there is so much toxicity so much
meanness so much divisiveness and
vitriol in our culture ha and I answered
by saying I think because we don't see
each other we spend too much time
thinking about worrying about ourselves
and we're not listening to one another
which is the real art of good politics
is listening those of us who are
privileged enough to have a role in
small role in popular culture have an
opportunity to tell stories which can
help people see what different lives
look like still be entertaining still be
engaged doesn't need to be didactic but
you can do something that opens up
people's eyes if you take a show like
insecure ISA raise wonderful show about
growing up african-american and in Los
Angeles she she is opening a world up to
people who previously probably had no
idea what that felt like to be in that
demographic at this moment in history
and she's telling a story and I think
that's very important Sonia so who just
did this wonderful documentary for us
called Baltimore Rising about the city's
extraordinary resilience and grit in
making their way back after the Freddie
gray murder and the tragedy of that and
you see the dignity of the city in all
its dimensions trying to find their
voice and their equilibrium again those
are things that you know we value look
we're not we're not this is not we're
not we're not here to educate right
we're here to entertain and we're here
we are first and foremost an
entertainment network but in doing so
you can occasionally do something which
is illuminating at the same time that
pertaining and because we have the
privilege of having such a broad canvas
to paint on we have an opportunity to do
that and I think culture has a role to
play you're a young guy relatively is
there an X Act for you you know I tell
you something I love my job I love my
company I love my colleagues I love
coming in every day I have another
little maxim which is usually people who
are who are good at what they do breathe
what they do I kind of breathe what I
what I do and I'm never bored I consider
an enormous privilege and I think every
day I get up and say okay how can we do
this better how can we get this to the
next level
there's no complacency inside my office
and there's no complacency inside our
company we're always saying to ourselves
what's next how can we build this even a
little deeper a little better what's our
next big thing and so when you have the
opportunity to work with the range of
people that I get to work with both on
the creative side and on the business
side I don't know that that for me that
there are many things to do that are
more exciting so I'm loving this right
now I think you know you think about
full-force what you're doing at any
particular moment and you let the future
take care of itself

Richard plepler CEO and chairman of HBO thank you so much for joining us.

Thank you.
